<!--    CHANGELOG FORMAT                                                -->

<!--    Completed Entry template:                                       -->
<!--                                                                    -->
<!--    # Date in DD MMM YYYY format                                    -->
<!--    ### New Features                                                -->
<!--    ### Improvements                                                -->
<!--    ### Fixes                                                       -->

<!--    Entries for pull request template:                              -->
<!--                                                                    -->
<!--    # Changes staged on develop                                     -->
<!--    ### New Features                                                -->
<!--    ### Improvements                                                -->
<!--    ### Fixes -->

# 24 November 2020
### Improvements
- README Updates
### Fixes
- Allow processing mappings with trailing whitespace.

# 27 October 2020
### Improvements
- Updated [mappingsToHeatmaps](/util/mappingsToHeatmaps.py) so that output layers use version 4.0 of the Navigator layer format.

# 20 October 2020
### Improvements
- Added documentation about scope of mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4) and [nist800-53-r5](/frameworks/nist800-53-r5).
- Added note about the reason [nist800-53-r5](/frameworks/nist800-53-r5) doesn't have any additional fields in the STIX.

# 8 October 2020
### Improvements
- Updated Revision 5 controls to use final release (no longer Final Public Draft). 
- Added mappings for [nist800-53-r5](/frameworks/nist800-53-r5). This constitutes version 1.0 of the Revision 5 mappings.
- Updated some mappings for [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4). This constitutes version 1.1 of the Revision 4 mappings.
- Updated [mapping methodology document](/docs/mapping_methodology.md), and updated [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4) and [nist800-53-r5](/frameworks/nist800-53-r5) methodology sections.

# 30 September 2020
### Improvements
- Revised documentation into more organized structure to better cater to varied use cases. See issue [#34](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/34).
- Added [NOTICE](/NOTICE.txt).
- Removed mappings from _Audit and Accountability_ controls in [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4).
### Fixes
- Fixed a bug with the layer directory generator creating broken links.

# 17 September 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional user stories to [use-cases.md](/docs/use-cases.md) to capture the operational context of users/roles for consuming threat intelligence data into an operational environment to improve overall risk management activities. 
- Added methodology section to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4).
- Updated [mappingsToHeatmaps](/util/mappingsToHeatmaps.py) so that output layers collapse control lists to the family name when all controls in the family are mapped. See [#27](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/27).
- Reorganized data in frameworks folder. For each framework:
    - Moved output STIX data to `stix` directory.
    - Added mappings list spreadsheet generated by [listMappings](/util/listMappings.py) script.
    - Added README to `layers` directory which lists the layers therein. Note: URLs in that README won't work until the repository is public. See issue [#30](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/30).
### Fixes
- Fixed regex typo leading to incorrect mappings for `T1053`, `T1053.002`, and `T1053.005`.
- Enabled SSL certificate verification for requests. See issue [#21](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/20).

# 24 August 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4). This release contains mappings for the techniques and sub-techniques covered in the following mitigation families: Account Use Policies (M1036), and Filter Network Traffic (M1037).  Freeze point for peer review.  

# 18 August 2020
### Fixes
- Improved error clarity in [listMappings](/util/listMappings.py) script, and changed the default `-version` argument to `v7.0` (previously it was `v7.0-beta`) so that it can be run sans arguments without crashing.

# 17 August 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4). This release contains mappings for the techniques and sub-techniques covered in the following mitigation families: Execution Prevention (M1038), Exploit Protection (M1050), and Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049), and Active Directory Configuration (M1015).  

# 10 August 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4). This release contains mappings for the techniques and sub-techniques covered in the following mitigation families: Application Isolation and Sandboxing (M1048), Application Developer Guidance (M1013), and Execution Prevention (M1038).  
- Updated parsers so that errors are colored in the terminal, making them more noticeable.
- Updated imports to lock stix2 to use v2.0. This will make updating to STIX 2.1 easier in the future. See issue [#20](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/20).

# 3 August 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4). This release contains mappings for the techniques and sub-techniques covered in the following mitigation families: Audit (M1047), Execution Prevention (M1038), Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040), Boot Integrity (M1046), Environment Variable Permissions (M1039), Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041), Code Signing (M1045), Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042), Data Backup (M1053), and Credential Access Protection (M1043).  
- Updated [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4) to map to ATT&CK [v7.0](https://github.com/mitre/cti/releases/tag/ATT%26CK-v7.0). Previously it was mapping to [v7.0-beta](https://github.com/mitre/cti/releases/tag/ATT%26CK-v7.0-beta).
- Added machine-readable `config.json` file to the framework data folders. This file identifies the control framework, ATT&CK domain and version for the parsers and allows `make.py` to support mixed domains and versions between different sets of mappings. See issue [#15](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/15).
- [Added documentation](/docs/visualizations.md#substituting-controls-for-attck-mitigation) on how to construct the ATT&CK Website and ATT&CK Navigator with controls taking the place of mitigations. See issue [#9](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/9).

# 15 July 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4).
- Added a new utility script, [listMappings](/util/listMappings.py), which creates a human readable list of mappings from the STIX mapping data. This script is capable of generating outputs in xlsx, csv, html, and markdown formats. See issue [#7](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/attack-control-framework-mappings/issues/7).
- Updated all scripts to allow the user to specify which version of ATT&CK to use.

# 25 June 2020
### Improvements
- Added additional mappings to [nist800-53-r4](/frameworks/nist800-53-r4).
- Added flag to [mappingsToHeatmaps](/util/mappingsToHeatmaps.py) to allow it to remove previously generated layers when run.
### Fixes
- Fixed `domain` field formatting for layers generated by [mappingsToHeatmaps](/util/mappingsToHeatmaps.py).

# 24 June 2020
### Improvements
- Added pull request template.
- Added [CONTRIBUTING.md](/CONTRIBUTING.md).
- Added [CHANGELOG.md](/CHANGELOG.md).
